Title: Django under the Hood - Funding open source, the hard way
Date:   2016-11-04 00:05
Category: conferences
Tags: conferences,protocols,talks,python,django,duth
Lang: en
Authors: rixx
Summary: Summary of the DUTH16 talk on OSS Funding


**Speaker**: [Nadia Eghbal](https://twitter.com/nayafia)

**Links**: [libraries.io](https://libraries.io/)

Think big - how do we do this for many problems, at the same time - which means building a system, which is a lot of
prior work.

 - You can't use revenue to talk about open source and success.
 - Our infrastructure is maintained by volunteers.
 - We don't need revenue, but no funding in the system is not good either.
 - There is nobody responsible for funding open source, everything is ad hoc, be it crowd funding, bounties, or tipping.

### What would be do with money?

 - Take more risks with new projects: People have neither time nor the high-risk attitude to put time in open source.
    - Example: Joyent hired Ryan Dahl to build out the Node.js prototype (after working on it unpaid for half a year), and
      they were the only ones who made the offer.
 - Invest back into existing projects
    - Maintenance is important

## How do we get money

 - Software devs make projects, users use projects, those generate resources, resources go in part back to developers 
 - Comparably with the non-profit sector

## How do we distribute the money?

1. Who needs the money?

    - ecosystem-level metrics (dependency mapping such as [libraries.io](https://libraries.io/))
    - project-level metrics (usage, activity, health), per stage
        - Incubation: pageviews, downloads, referring sites
        - Growth: contributor count, non-author contributors, opened issues and PRs
        - Maturity: first time contributors, average response time to PRs, and issues

2. What do they need money for?

    - Incubation: dedicated time to write code
    - Growth: Infrastructure costs, code review, design
    - Maturity: Dedicated sprints, release management, community management, code review, biz dev

3. How does the money get dispersed?

    - Projects
        - Transparent governance
        - Build institutional resilience
        - Need for legal entity
        - Funding restrictions based on legal entity
    - People
        - Respects decentralized structure
        - Good for one-off work
        - No need for legal entity
        - Can lead to favouritism
    - If funding projects, centralize efforts (foundations for languages or frameworks)
    - If funding people, build up opportunities for individual grants (Mozilla-style)
    - Open question: How do projects become financially sustainable?

4. Who should fund them?

    - Companies: need commons for cheap resources + protect against competitors, and protect business goals
    - Government: oops, ethical questions here, but nominally funder of common good
    - Academia: Sustainable, but not too compatible

**Today's challenge: getting money back to software producers.**

