Title: Django under the Hood - Channels
Date:   2016-11-03 00:02
Category: conferences
Tags: conferences,protocols,talks,python,django,duth
Lang: en
Authors: rixx
Summary: Summary of the DUTH16 talk "Channels"


**Speaker**: Andrew Godwin is known mostly for Django migrations. He works for eventbrite, and started Channels.

**Links**: [Channels docs](channels.readthedocs.io) and [Channels examples](github.com/andrewgodwin/channels-examples)


## The Problem

 - There are now WebSockets, and other things that are not just Request/Response. Channels tries to solve that, since
   Django is (as is) not exactly suited to asynchronous work.
 - Since Python is synchronous (traditionally), Django is, too.
 - Synchronous code is much easier to write and debug and understand and reason about.
 - Single-process async is not enough, distributed systems rock!
 - To offset the problems with reasoning about async needs to be solved by proven design patterns.
 - Needs to be easy to reason about, easy to understand, and **easy to explain**

## Design Pattern: Loose Coupling via Message Bus

 - Do not be tied too much to other elements: to Django, to WebSockets.
    - Implemented: HTTP, WebSocket
    - Drafted: IRC, Email, Slack
    - Do not do: Minecraft, Mainframe Terminal
 - Well-defined, minimal interfaces that can be used in all places
 - Very proven: Message Bus
 - ASGI: specification of how to talk to the message bus, defining five interface methods
    - nonblocking send
    - blocking receive
    - add to group
    - discard from group
    - send to group
 - Messages are: JSON-compatible, dictionary-based messages onto named channels

## Implementation overview

 - WebSocket: upgrade from HTTP
    - Connect and ask for upgrade
    - Server either accepts or rejects
    - Send and receive whenever you want, no ordering
    - Disconnect
 - Server handles sockets separately from Django project
 - Structure: Shared bus layer, receiving incoming, and forwarding to Django or Channels
 - Mark channels that need to go to a specific group
 - Works as shared-nothing: workers don't know about each other, hence the reply_channel
 - Message Bus tradeoffs
    - At-most-once: do not guarantee delivery
    - FIFO: messages are handled ordered
    - Backpressure via capacity: reject connections over capacity
    - Not sticky: you might go to different servers on every message
 - Ordering via an order key on receive messages, per-group
 - Changed to explicit connecting for a clean start for ordering

## Parts

 - Channels: Django integration of ASGI
 - asgi-redis: for shared backends
 - asgi-ipc: local memory backend
 - asgiref: common code
 - Daphne: using twisted (etc), handle connections and negotiations, can handle either everything or only WebSockets

## Implementation details

 - Consumers
    - Consumers look like views
    - Interfaces againt message instead of request
    - Responses are not a return; responses can be sent at any time in the consumer
    - Also class-based consumers available
 - Routing
    - Like Django: regex-based matches
 - Sessions: Channels Session:
    - Contain all the relevant meta information (eg ordering)
    - Generate sessions from a message's reply channel name
    - uses `ConsumeLater` exception to postpone delivering a message
 - No middleware
    - Middleware is *very* request/response
    - New middleware *half* works
    - Decorators are more discoverable and explicit than middleware
 - View/HTTP Django is still there
    - Django as is: is now a single consumer, the ViewConsumer, inside Channels
    - Send a message, receive response, send response
    - Means you can drop down to Django views
 - Signals and commands
    - Runserver works (overridden to include Daphne)
    - New signals for lifecycle handling
    - Staticfiles configured for development are injected

## Future of Channels

 - Generalised async communication (think CSP)
 - Might work on a diverse set of async stuff
    - MQTT
    - Microservice communication
    - Separate things by CPU
    - Mix Python versions
    - Mix async and sync
 - Diversity of implementations
    - More web servers (at least a second one to Daphne)
    - More channel layers
 - More optimization
    - Better bulk sends
    - Less network traffic on receive
    - Channels was right first, will be fast second
 - More maintainers
    - More viewpoints
    - More time
 - 1.0 is coming really soon


## Q&A

 - Use cases
    - Long polling
    - Live data
    - Might implement sock.js in the future.
 - Getting involved
    - A getting started
    - Concepts documentation
    - Channels examples
    - Further docs
 - Why do URLs start with a slash?
    - This is not URL routing, it's message routing.
 - Is this applicable to the current Django DEP on routing?
    - Yup. There ought to be a "start with a slash" DEP.
 - Can you make sure that some requests are only handled by some systems?
    - Yup, you do that in the runworker command. You specify which requests should be handled.
 - Has HTTP over channels been load tested?
    - Came out a bit slower than gunicorn, doesn't handle many (>1k) connections well yet.
 - What are our profiling tools here?
    - HTTP benchmarking tools, there is one for WebSockets … other than that, nothing.
 - Within the spec, could there be an "at least once" mode?
    - You could do it, but all consumers and decorators would need to be rewritten, dealing with duplicates - where would we dedup? It's certainly possible, but it's a lot of work, not exactly feasible.
 - So many choices for transport layers, and frontend stuff - what do you recommend as default stack? 
    - Personally, Daphne for WebSockets, WSGI for HTTP, route via nginx. Once we reach 1.0, we should be able to use Daphne for everything.
