Title: Django under the Hood - Debugging
Date:   2016-11-03 00:04
Category: conferences
Tags: conferences,protocols,talks,python,django,duth
Lang: en
Authors: rixx
Summary: Summary of the DUTH16 talk "Debugging"


**Speaker**: Aymeric Augustin: DDTB maintainer for a while, in Django: Python3, templating stuff with Jinja2, Time
zones,and much more.

**Links:** [App](http://duth16dp.herokuapp.com) and [Code](https://github.com/aaugustin/duth16dp), 
[guide on DRF profiling](https://www.dabapps.com/blog/api-performance-profiling-django-rest-framework/)


## Response Times

 - Fast is up to 0.1s
 - Normal is up to a second
 - Anything faster catches the user's flow of thought

### Measuring page load time

 - Chrome Developer Tools, emulate bad network speed
 - Google Analytics, sampling 1% of users
 - Application performance monitoring solutions

### Timeline

 - Redirects
 - App Cache for some apps
 - DNS lookup
 - TCP handshaking
 - Start request
 - Receive response
 - Process response
    - domLoading
       - No event
       - Parse HTML, build DOM
       - Download and run sync js
    - domInteractive
       - DOMCOntentLoades event
       - Download CSS and images
       - Parse CSS, build CSSOM
    - domComplete
       - Page is fully "loaded"
       - Load event
 - onLoad

### Consequences

 - DNS cache helps a lot
 - Backend varies a lot, but 10%-20% is expected
 - HTTP 1 is fairly bad at this - HTTP2 can do much more
 - We cache, we minify, we inline, we use other connections for assets
 - Only proper way to cache JS and CSS: put hash in filename, set validity to infinite.
 - Use HSTS, to remove a redirect (moves redirect to browser)
 - Critical Path: HTML ➡️ CSS ➡️ Sync JS on CSS
    - CSS on top, JS on bottom
 - Browsers optimize heavily
    - Parse HTML incrementally
    - Paint while waiting for Sync JS, after CSS
    - Paint while waiting for fonts
    - Preload scanner


##  Order or optimizations - Frontend

1. Optimize HTML load time
2. Optimize CSS load time
3. Avoid sync JS, including inline, or put it at the bottom

### Sync scripts

 - Download & inject script via another script (this does not block)
 - Use `<script async src=''></script>`
    - For non-critical: in the body
    - For critical: in the head

## Order of optimizations - Backend

1. Look at SQL queries
   - `select_related`
      - 1/N to 1 only
      - more elegant, but not always faster, fetching some instance repeatedly (more data)
   - `prefetch_related`
      - use a `Prefetch` object for ordering
      - Makes several queries, resulting in transactional consistency issues
2. Look at DB interaction
   - use `only`, `defer`, and especially `values_list`, `values`
   - use `aggregate` and `annotate`
   - use `iterator()` (not a common use case, all data is still fetched)

## Q&A

 - Async CSS?
    - Kind of,  inline CSS later on, it might help a bit.
 - Content hash vs e-tag?
    - Didn't manage to make it work in all the browsers due to gzipping etc. Good idea, but not practical.
 - Future version where ORM would error out if queries were not prefetched?
    - Tricky to read minds … Could be as doable as it is annoying.
 - Does `iterate()` cache and re-use?
    - No, we want garbage collection here.
 - What would make debugging easier with `annotate()` and `aggregate()` in combination with `values_list()`?
    - Perhaps better documentation is a good way to go here.
