Title: Django under the Hood - Testing
Date:   2016-11-03 00:03
Category: conferences
Tags: conferences,protocols,talks,python,django,duth
Lang: en
Authors: rixx
Summary: Summary of the DUTH16 talk "Testing"


**Speaker**: Ana Balica, works for Potato (London).


## Archeology

 - 1.0
    - Ticket 2333: add test framework, `./manage.py test`
    - The `TestRunner` does setup, points to method executing `tests.py` and `doctests`, teardown
    - `TestCase` provides `Client`, bypassing WSGI
 - 1.1   
    - We get `PUT`, `HEAD`, `DELETE`, `OPTIONS`
    - `TestCase` gets transactions for rollbacks on test data
    - `TransactionTestCase` flushes the database instead
 - 1.2
    - `DjangoTestSuiteRunner` returned number of failed tests as exit codes which does not work for more than 255 failed tests, and also disregards common system codes.
    - Support for multiple databases: by redirecting all replica requests to the main database in tests
 - 1.3
    - `RequestFactory` does the request and `Client` inherits from it (even this should be moved to composition instead)
    - doctests: Neither high-quality tests nor high-quality documentation, discouraged
    - `@skipIfDBFeature`, `@skipUnlessDBFeature`
 - 1.4
    - `SimpleTestCase` (no DB hits, no setup, no teardown)
    - `LiveServerTestCase` (based on transaction, runs server)
    - New Tutorial for testing
    - New assertions for JSON etc
    - Python3
    - unittest2
 - 1.5
    - `TransactionTestCase` flushes after instead of before `TestCase`, not leaving a dirty state
 - 1.6
    - `PATCH`
    - Test discovery
    - Full paths instead of pseudo paths
    - doctest removal
 - 1.7
    - `StaticLiveServerTestCase`
 - 1.8
    - `TRACE` (complete verbs)
    - `TestCase` now encapsulates fixtures in their own additional transaction
 - 1.9
    - Parallel testing with `multiprocessing`
       - Also in Django's own tests
       - Find number of workers, build a database per test
       - Partition tests, and workers grab tests
    - For older versions, there is `nose` with `multiprocessing` (better than none)
 - 1.10
    - `tag` as decorator to group or exclude tests


## Test Bed

 - `./manage.py test`
 - Instantiate `TestRunner`, and run tests
 - `setup_test_environment`
    - Locmem email
    - Instrumented test render method, sending signals prior to rendering
    - Deactivate translations
 - `build_suite`: aggregation of all relevant tests
 - `setup_databases`
 - `run_suite`
 - `teardown_databases`
 - `teardown_test_environment` (reverse of `setup_test_environment`)
 - Return amount of failures and successes

## Classes

 - `SimpleTestCase` has the Client, but no DB
 - `TransactionTestCase`: flushes per test, is slow
 - `TestCase`: faster, transaction per test
 - `LiveServerTestCase`: launches server
 - `StaticLiveServerTestCase`: launches server, serving also static files

## Client

 - `RequestFactory`: constructs requests and encodes data
 - `ClientHandler`: inherits from `HTTPBaseHandler`, returns response, emulates browser behaviour, loads middleware, disables CSRF
 - `Client`: stateful, counts responses, and knows about contest, handles redirects

## Quality

 - Introduce [FactoryBoy](https://factoryboy.readthedocs.io/en/latest/)
    - Replace fixtures with random and realistic values
    - Those are generated by [Faker](http://faker.readthedocs.io/en/master/)
 - Or use [Hypothesis](http://hypothesis.works/)
    - using randomized-ish generated values
    - provide a description of the parameters to be tested (think functional)
    - Property based testing might look complicated
 - Quality is not expressed by Coverage
    - Low coverage is bad
    - High coverage does not imply high quality of tests
 - Mutation testing ([mutpy](https://github.com/bayandin/mutpy))
    - Run tests on code and mutated code
    - If tests fail on mutant, it is killed and raises our score
    - If tests don't fail on the mutant
    - Mutates logic, decorator, constant, conditionals, break points
    - Mutation score: low is worse

## Django testing tutorial

 - Yay, it's in the tutorial.
 - Yay, it's in `startproject`

## More is better

 - More is not better: slow tests suck
 - Use `MD5PasswordHasher`
 - Use an in-memory `sqlite3` if doable
 - Write more `SimpleTestCases`
 - Use `setUpTestData`
 - Don't use mocks everywhere
 - Optimize `setUp()`
 - Don't save unless necessary (in-memory model, or `build()` or `stub()` in `FactoryBoy`)
 - Isolate unit tests from the rest, due to their speed, and tag them

## Write better code by writing better tests
 - Isolate business logic in your code, so that you can isolate it in your tests

## Q&A

 - Do you have an opinion on if the Django TestRunner is necessary?
    - It could be stripped, but it's too tied into internals to be able to remove.
 - What are you missing from Django testing tools?
    - Pluggable components, Channels will bring improvements, too.
 - Hypothesis might hurt with ORM performance - isn't that bad?
    - Use hypothesis testing for unit tests, and if you really need them, just run them on a CI against the DB.
 - How can Django encourage devs to pull logic out of code?
    - Be more explicit about not bloating views etc, improve docs.
 - How do you go about finding your problems in an existing test suite?
    - Run modules separately. (Side note by me: for pytest there is [pytest-profiling](https://github.com/manahl/pytest-plugins/tree/master/pytest-profiling))
 - Migrations might take a looong time in setup/teardown …
    - Ana doesn't have that problem due to the DataStore. Maybe concatenate/squash? There is also `keepdb`
 - Multiple DBs are hard, Django only flushes the default one.
    - Ana recommended a more pluggable system anyways, it's not easily doable.
 - Testing with files?
    - Minimum possible example. Don't muck about with the storage backend.
 - What can Django do to improve their own tests?
    - 10 minutes parallelized is okay. Maybe try decorators for local vs remote environments? FactoryBoy/Hypothesis might be cool, too.
